= App

Move the config out of your app, and into App.


== WARNING:

This release is new, improved, and almost completely incompatible with the
gem formerly known as App. (See "What about YAML?", below.)


== K.

=== Rails (3.0)

  % echo 'gem "app"' >> Gemfile
  % bundle install
  % rails g configurable


You now have App config files at config/app. It will generate an override per
Rails environment.

  # config/app.rb
  class App < Configurable
    config.javascript_expansions = {
      :prototype     => "prototype"
      :scriptaculous => %w(effects dragdrop controls)
    }
  end


Need to update those sources for production?

  # config/app/production.rb
  App.configure do
    ajax_lib_base = "http://ajax.googleapis.com/ajax/libs"

    config.javascript_expansions.update({
      :prototype     => "#{ajax_lib_base}/prototype/1.6.1.0/prototype.js"
      :scriptaculous => "#{ajax_lib_base}/scriptaculous/1.8.3/scriptaculous.js"
    })
  end


=== Ruby

App can be used in any Ruby application. Just bundle (see "Rails", above, less
the `rails g`) or install the gem.

Make sure "app" is required in your environment, and define a class from there.

  class MyConfig < Configurable
    config.launched_at = Time.now.utc
  end


== What about YAML?

YAML is great, really, but it just wasn't great beyond simple configuration.

Take that last example. ERB would be required, and still it's cumbersome.

  # app.yml
  ---
  launched_at: <%= Time.now.utc.iso8601 %>


Forget the ISO 8601 formatting and you'll get a string back, instead.

But that's just the surface. Where you're manipulating the primitive objects
that YAML supports most easily, you could have stored complex Ruby objects:
Pathname, Proc, or anything else.

  class App < Configurable
    config.config_path = Rails.root.join("config")
    config.uptime = Proc.new { (Time.now.utc - App.launched_at).seconds }
    config.asset_host = ActiveSupport::StringInquirer.new "amazon"
  end

  App.config_path.join("app") # => #<Pathname:config/app>
  App.uptime.call             # => 430.198400 seconds
  App.asset_host.amazon?      # => true


And because these configuration files are just class definitions, you can
write your own methods, as well.

  class App < Configurable
    def self.destroy_sessions!
      Session.delete_all
    end
  end

  App.destroy_sessions! # => 1


If Ruby can handle it, so can App.

But OK, OK, there's still an upgrade path:

  class App < Configurable
    # This must come first.
    self.config = <<YAML
  legacy: <%= "configuration" %>
  YAML

    # config.key = "value"
  end


This is not backwards-compatible. This is only to help ease the transition.
You will most likely have to upgrade your calls.


== LICENSE

(The MIT License)

(c) 2009-2010 Stephen Celis, stephen@stephencelis.com.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy
of this software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal
in the Software without restriction, including without limitation the rights
to use, copy, modify, merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell
copies of the Software, and to permit persons to whom the Software is
furnished to do so, subject to the following conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all
copies or substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR
IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY,
FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE
AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER
LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM,
OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR OTHER DEALINGS IN THE
SOFTWARE.
